Hi everybody and welcome back.
Now we've just seen how to put a dictionary or a set of dictionaries in a list something that is called
nesting.
Now let's take a look at putting a list inside a dictionary.
Let's take purchasing a new car as our example.
If we were to just use a list all we would have a list is a list of the cars features.
So alloy wheels side airbags whatever it might be.
We would just have a list of the car's features but by storing a list in a dictionary the list of features
can be just one aspect of the car we are purchasing so we could have a dictionary that defines the type
of car we can have a dictionary defines the type of features and so on.
In this example we have a car with two kinds of information.
The standard car features which come with any car purchase and a list of additional actors which any
consumer can ask for the list of actors is a value associated with the key extras to use the items in
a list.
We give the name of the dictionary and the key extras as reward and value in the dictionary instead
of returning a single value.
We get a list of the cars extras.
So let's see how we can do that now.
We kick off by creating a dictionary that holds info about the car we ordered.
So let's do that car and let's change that to my forward car.
Equals.
OK.
Let's do a new line so it's nice and clean type.
So what kind of car did you order.
Well let's just keep it nice and simple you order the standard four door saloon.
OK.
Now the next key We're going to add is extras.
So have you any have you ordered any extras which are car this is going to be a list of any additional
extras that you requested.
So let's see that's Krater list with square brackets.
And what did you ask for.
Well you asked for.
Alloy wheels
you ask for climate control.
Don't forget your single quotes because this is just a normal list control.
Anything else when you ask for the letter.
Heated seats.
So again I just forgot the opening single quote the letter.
OK let's leave it at that.
There we go.
There's a list.
Create.
Let's now print an order of our summary
print
the car you ordered is a closer quote.
Plus car plus type so we're accessing our dictionary and we're accessing the key type from that dictionary.
Plus
and actually just put in a space there with the following extras.
OK.
So let's see what we do now.
Well we want to tour extras for extra incar.
So for any extra in a car dictionary we want to access all our extras.
Key So we want to access the value of an extra key and we want to print these out.
Print
backslash.
And here's something we haven't used before although we have seen it tab plus extra OK.
So let's run this now and see what we get.
Error.
OK so where's our error.
Well it's telling us it's at line 7.
So let's have a look at line 7.
And here we go.
I forgot my colon.
OK.
There we go.
Correct.
Let's run it again.
Another error.
This is not good.
Let's have a look.
So the error is telling me it's on line 12 and it's telling me car is not defined.
And rightly so because we don't have a dictionary called car we have a dictionary called my ordered
car.
There we go on again.
We have it here in car but it's not car it's my ordered car removed an additional car.
Let's say you hate the car you ordered is a standard Ford or saloon with the following extras alloy
wheels.
Climate control letter.
Heated seats.
So as we just don't we have nested list inside the dictionary whenever you want more than one value
to be associated with a single dictionary.
You can use lists within that dictionary.
Very very helpful resource.
OK.
Thank you for listening.
And that brings us to the end of our section on dictionaries.
But if you have any questions at all please do not hesitate to contact me and I'll see you in the next
lecture.
Thank you.